well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we are going to talk
about the spirit of the law and order
and my friend from New York so a very
interesting poll came out and it proved
without a doubt that running on a
law-and-order platform a platform that
says law enforcement doesn't need reform
is a losing platform the poll is by
YouGov and the percentage of Americans
that believe law enforcement is good to
go as is does not need reform is nine
nine percent single digits everybody
else believes that reform is necessary
55 percent of Americans believe that
major reform is necessary that's huge
that is HUGE
so if you are a police accountability
activists you've been involved with
these campaigns take a bow
you have won hearts and minds the people
are behind you an overwhelming majority
of people are behind you now I have read
most of the proposals most of the things
that police accountability activists
want they're good they're good but
there's something that I think is
missing for most of them and I think
it's really important years ago I had a
friend come down from New York now the
only time he had been in the south prior
to this was a brief stopover at Fort
Benning Georgia so he gets down here
he's down here a few days and he's
experiencing the local customs and after
a few days we go to this gas station and
this is a rural southern gas station so
it's a gas station a diner a grocery
store a butcher a auto parts store all
in one spot because it's the only thing
for like 30 miles you know he was amazed
that you can buy ammo at a gas station
we get something to eat and then we go
outside and we're sitting there around
the picnic table was like king of the
hill and a cop
top cop goes inside grab something to
eat - my buddy looks in his car just
glances over and he's like are they all
armed don't like that yeah pretty much
and inside his car is an m4 amasi fuss
re a compact ar-15 a shotgun and a
long-range rifle and this is all in
addition to a size Hawk and I thought
he's like why and kind of motions around
because it's Mayberry you know like
because that's the only cop for 20 miles
he's on his own got it you know if
you're 15 minutes away from backup you
you want to be well-armed generally
speaking rural cops are better armed
than those in major cities cop comes out
and because of the amount of firepower
in a car my buddy's kind of like kind of
keeping his distance and the guy starts
talking to him and after a few minutes
the guy cop leaves and he's like man
that guy was really nice I'm like yeah
he's got to be and he's like I do not
understand y'all are way more wild than
we are up there
why is law enforcement like this because
they exercise the spirit of the law and
I've talked about this in other videos
but haven't really gone deep into it
assuming we're in a at least semi just
society a law has an intent it has an
intent it's designed to do something
it's designed hopefully to protect
people that's the idea behind it
most of the reforms that are being
suggested are going to take care of a
lot of the problems that already exist
but you're always going to have some
kind of laws in this system if those
laws are enforced by the spirit of the
law rather than the letter of the law
you will have more just law enforcement
you will have
you'll have a better community following
a legislative intent I'm gonna give you
two examples one's a minor example one's
a major one a minor one would be in a
lot of states fireworks okay if they fly
they're banned why because they can
start a fire right it goes without
saying so around here a bunch of North
four avoids go up to Alabama buy some
stuff they're not supposed to have bring
it back down and do a bunch of North
Florida boy stuff on 4th of July if it
has been raining the week before cops
are not gonna care spirit of law it was
to stop fires that's the reason if it is
in the middle of a drought they're gonna
pull up and at first they're gonna be
like what are you doing
and basically lecture them and educate
them then they'll drive off if they keep
doing it they'll come back and write
them a ticket that's how it works out
here a a more prominent example is stand
your ground okay
that's a pretty controversial law it
shouldn't be the legislative intent
there is actually really good we've
talked about it fight flight or freeze
prior to this a lot of laws required
somebody to try to get away you you may
not be able to overcome a biological
response if you're respond to this to
fight you may end up getting in trouble
even though you were the victim that's
what it was designed to fix it was never
intended so you could go out and start
something and then escalate it that's
the letter of the law enforcing the
spirit of the law creates community
policing
so why'd cops do it in rural areas and
not in major cities because their boss
is elected they don't have a choice
the reason cops out here don't have the
same attitude as NYPD is because if they
do somebody's going to call the sheriff
and they're going to get fired
they can't act like that because the
sheriff doesn't want her officer
representing her like that to the voters
that will make sure she doesn't get
reelected elected law enforcement the
top law enforcement officer being
elected forces departments to engage in
community policing they have to know
what the community wants and it's really
simple most elected law enforcement
agencies they focus on violent and
property crime period full stop and
that's what they care about why because
that's what's going to get them
reelected they don't care about the
trivial stuff one it angers voters
because everybody they arrest has five
cousins and two the more important
crimes are the ones that get the most
coverage those the ones that upset the
community the most their voters if they
are accountable because they are elected
they're more likely to engage in
community policing I have not seen that
in most proposals the top law
enforcement officer in every agency
needs to be elected and they need to
have absolute power over hiring and
firing no union does not matter that
would solve a whole lot of problems real
fast because officers street cops will
change the way they do things or they
will no longer be employed because the
politician cop the one that's running
for office they're going to want to get
reelected in an order to do that they
have to satisfy the voters quotas for
arrests and tickets none of that stuff
matters what matters is keeping the
voters happy
and what are the voters want peace
period they want order right the spirit
of the law will provide order without
providing injustice so that needs to be
something that that gets added to these
platforms my opinion anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good day